[MUSIC]
Hello, in this video, we're gonna
be creating a standalone build,
Number Wizard UI.
I've called mine, that when we click and
play, it takes us into a standalone build.
We've added a Quit button,
so we can quit out of it.
We can play all the way through our game,
and it all works.
We’re putting in the funnel, it’s little
bits of polish in terms of color and
text as well.
And when we click on Quit,
that takes us out of the game.
Okay, let’s get cracking.
When creating a standalone build for
your game,
it’s good form to provide some way for
people to quit.
So we’re gonna add a Quit button here.
Start off, I’m in my Start menu scene,
I’ve switched over to that.
I'm gonna duplicate my Start button,
so you just Ctrl+D or Cmd+D.
Now instead of Start button,
we will call this Quit button.
Quit button, doink doink doink,move
our Quit button down a little bit
below the Start button and re-change
the font on here from Start, okay.
I know it's a bit of a pain to
update all these names, but
it really does help us
out in the long run.
We will name this Quit,
we'll have it a little bit smaller.
We don't want people to think
that Quit is the main event.
Change this down to say 70 or maybe
even smaller than that, 60 font size.
Okay, good, Start and Quit,
make the button a little bit smaller,
I think, in Quit and Quit.
Okay, there we go, so if I've got
a Start button and a Quit button.
Change the color of the Quit button,
so it's a little bit more of a red,
warning-y kind of thing.
Okay, there we go, I'm not gonna spend
a ton of time finessing my colors.
I'll leave that up to you to
make your game look beautiful.
My game is functional at the moment,
that is what I'm going for.
Okay, so now, when we click on Quit,
what do we wanna have happen?
We wanna have quit.
Where do we manage that
in our scene loader?
We have our scene loader script.
Let's fire up our scene loader script.
We can see, we've got a couple
of public methods in here.
What do we need to do?
If you were to pause the video now and
figure out what we would need to do,
what do you think you would do?
You would create a new method that's
a public method that allows us to quit.
How do we do that?
Let's have a quick look at
the unity docs for our code.
We're looking for Application.Quit.
Now, a really good point here,
this is ignored in the editor.
This is only when we make a standalone
build that the Quit button
will do anything.
In the editor, we just can't quit like
that, and also, in the docs here,
there's a caveat that be careful if
you're doing this for iOS, or Android,
or anywhere there's gonna be rules
about how people are allowed to quit.
But this is good for us while
we're creating standalone PC, Mac,
Linux builds to be able
to let people quit.
Okay, so we need Application.Quit.
Let's create ourselves a public void,
let's say QuitGame.
We'll call this, and
we need to not pass in anything,
our curly braces, Application.Quit, and
parentheses at the end, semicolon.
Okay, now, and we'll save that.
I'm just gonna remove my little
bit of white space just there.
Okay, save that.
We have our public method QuitGame.
Back over to our button,
click on our button.
Should be a pro at doing this by now.
Scene Loader is already connected to
the button cuz that was what we got from
duplicating.
Whoops, something went wrong there.
We need to click Scene Loader and
Quit Game.
There we go,
we've made ourselves a Quit button.
What else do we need to do here?
Well, I've got some challenging points for
you.
We need to add text and polish,
add the remaining instructions and
text to your game,
tweak your buttons, images, colors,
get it to the point where you think
it looks beautiful and amazing.
And then we will create a standalone
build, which we will do together.
If you know how to do that already, you
can create that without waiting for me.
Otherwise we'll do that together.
I'll just take a very short amount of
time to add my text and tweak my colors.
But if you wanna take a bit more time and
have it look amazing,
now is the time to do that.
So pause the video and add those elements.
Okay, well, first of all,
in our Start menu,
we need to tell someone what is
going on and what they need to do.
On Canvas, right click UI,
Text Mesh Pro Text.
I'll move this up to
the top here a little bit.
Anchored to the middle of
the screen is fine for now.
I think that's okay.
I'm going to change the text in here to,
I'll put in,
Quotation marks, Welcome to Number Wizard.
Please think of a number between 1 and
1,000.
Okay, stretch out our
box a little bit here.
Just quick sticks,
not gonna take too long on this.
Increase the font size,
80, how's that look?
A little bit too big, 60, and
then, we will center a line and
middle inside our box,
make the box a little bit neater.
Okay, Welcome to Number Wizard.
And you can click on that again.
W to move it around.
That's roughly where I want it.
I want these buttons to be
pretty much underneath it.
We want the player's line of sight
to come down a flow like this.
Okay, numbers between 1 and 1,000,
probably need our final quotation
marks on the end of this.
Okay, dot, dot, dot, there we go, and
of course we need to rename this to
Intro Text or something similar to that.
Intro Text, if we click Play,
just make sure that looks okay, and yeah,
not too bad,
a little bit ugly background there.
I'm just gonna change my background,
click on the camera.
I could create an image text box that fits
behind here, that would be fine as well.
But now we've changed the camera
background to something a little bit
darker and grayer, just so
it's not the default camera.
Okay, how does that look?
It looks just fine.
Okay, what I will do is click on this and
copy my hexidecimal code, so I can put
that into the camera in my other scenes.
In upcoming sections,
we're gonna talk about prefabbing, so
we don't have to do this manual process.
But we won't jump into that just yet,
we're gonna do it manual in each of our
cameras and feel the pain of why don't
we have a better way to do this?
So save,
let's go have a look at our other scenes.
We will look at Cool Game,
what do we need to do here?
Well, I'm just gonna change the camera
to that new color that I've just
come up with.
There we go, and you can see
the cameras in each of the scenes and
all of these game objects in each
of these scenes are independent.
So just cuz we changed
the camera in the first scene
doesn't mean the camera
is changed in this scene.
We need to go in and change them all
independently at the moment with the way
that we've got things structured.
And like I said, we'll find a much better
way to do this in upcoming sections of
the course, but for now, this is fine.
So we've got all the stuff we
need to have written on there.
On the win screen, we need to have, again,
I'll update my camera,
paste that in there.
Okay and what do we wanna have Ben saying?
So on Canvas, right click,
we will create UI > TextMeshPro,
I'll name this straight away,
Well Done Text.
And then here we'll say,
Well done, I don't know why
he's saying well done to us, is he,
cuz we were the one who guessed it.
So we'll say, I guessed your number.
Want to play again?
Okay, so it's really not a game per
se that we've got going on here.
It is a demonstration of our ability
to create UI in a nice, friendly way.
And as we move forward, we'll make things
that are a lot more of a game with game
play and decisions for players,
all that kind of good stuff.
And we center and
center vertically and horizontally.
Move that into an okay position,
put the Play Again button lined
up relatively underneath.
Okay, a little bit faster
than most with this,
don't wanna take too much time on it.
Just to show you what I'm doing to make
sure that you can see everything that I've
got in my game.
We'll click on Play, and
we can click the Play Again button,
it takes us into the game.
Start or Quit, we'll start.
Higher higher higher, success.
Success button should be renamed to
something a little bit cleverer.
I think I'll do that right now, or else,
it's gonna bug me and bug anyone out there
who thinks that Success is not
the right thing to be calling this.
We'll just change it to, That's, It.
[LAUGH] exclamation mark doesn't work with
this font, but we'll say, That's It or
Correct.
I'll say Correct.
Nice and clean,
instead of saying Success, that's fine,
we'll leave it named as it is.
It still makes sense, like that.
Okay, so Correct, last thing we
wanna do is to create a build.
We go up to File> Build Settings.
We've got our scenes in there,
make sure you've got your scenes.
That's very important 0, 1,
2, where our platform is PC,
Mac & Linux Standalone,
click Build and Run.
Where are we gonna save that?
I'm gonna save mine not
in my repo in here.
You can save it wherever you like,
it's fine.
I'm just gonna save mine to the desktop.
I'm gonna create a new folder in here
which we need to do, New Folder.
Number Wizard UI, and
click on that, select folder,
that's where it'll be saved.
Building and running, it'll take
a little bit of time to do this.
Wait for the magic.
I'll pause my video and
come back when I finish building, and
I'll see you in a moment.
Here I am again.
I've had a pop up,
which is asking me the configuration.
Just leave all that at default and
click on Play.
Made with Unity's splash automatically
in there, which is cool.
Welcome to Number Wizard, start the game,
higher higher higher, correct, well done,
play again, fantastic, quit, and
that does quit us out of the game.
So that is a file,
if you go and track that down.
Find your folder where
you have saved that.
You'll see that you've got
a Number Wizard application.
If you were to double click on that, that
is what will allow you to play the game.
And you can send that off to someone else,
you can share that, you can host it,
all those kinda good things,
Correct, Play Again, and Quit.
Ok, so this is the file
that you're interested in.
This is the application
that we've just created.
Excellent, great work,
you've done the full loop, the full cycle,
the full everything on Number Wizard UI.
Great work in this section, and
I'll see you again in an upcoming video.